docs/source/fileformats.rst, before:

***************************
File formats used in NILMTK
***************************

We use the metadata schema defined by the NILM Metadata project.  
See the `'dataset metadata' sections of the NILM Metadata documentation`_.

.. _`'dataset metadata' sections of the NILM Metadata documentation`: http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html


HDF5
----

The `HDF5 file format`_ is developed by The HDF Group.

.. _`HDF5 file format`: http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5

In NILMTK, there is a one-to-one relationship between tables in the
HDF5 file and physical sensors.  In other words, for each physical
sensor there is a single table in HDF5.  We use the term ``sensor`` to
refer to a physical device capable of recording one or more parameters
from a single point.

The hierarchy used in HDF follows the pattern
``/building<i>/elec/sensor<j>`` where ``i`` and ``j`` are integers
starting from 1.  ``sensor<j>`` belongs to ``ElecMeter`` instance ``<j>``
(i.e. we use the same number).

Some ElecMeters measure multiple phases (e.g. for a 3-phase mains
supply) or legs (e.g. north American homes often have a single phase
mains supply split into two 120 volt legs).  In this case, a single
ElecMeter will have multiple sensors.  If an ``ElecMeter`` has
multiple sensors then we add a single letter to the end of the sensor
name e.g. ``sensor1a``.

Commit message:

we always use SI units

docs/source/fileformats.rst, after:

***************************
File formats used in NILMTK
***************************

We use the metadata schema defined by the NILM Metadata project.  
See the `'dataset metadata' sections of the NILM Metadata documentation`_.

.. _`'dataset metadata' sections of the NILM Metadata documentation`: http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html


HDF5
----

The `HDF5 file format`_ is developed by The HDF Group.

.. _`HDF5 file format`: http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5

In NILMTK, there is a one-to-one relationship between tables in the
HDF5 file and physical sensors.  In other words, for each physical
sensor there is a single table in HDF5.  We use the term ``sensor`` to
refer to a physical device capable of recording one or more parameters
from a single point.

The hierarchy used in HDF follows the pattern
``/building<i>/elec/sensor<j>`` where ``i`` and ``j`` are integers
starting from 1.  ``sensor<j>`` belongs to ``ElecMeter`` instance ``<j>``
(i.e. we use the same number).

Physical quantities are defined in the metadata.  We always use SI
units or SI derived units.  e.g. Watts (not kW).

Some ElecMeters measure multiple phases (e.g. for a 3-phase mains
supply) or legs (e.g. north American homes often have a single phase
mains supply split into two 120 volt legs).  In this case, a single
ElecMeter will have multiple sensors.  If an ``ElecMeter`` has
multiple sensors then we add a single letter to the end of the sensor
name e.g. ``sensor1a``.
