docs/manual/user_guide/install.md, before:


# Install NILMTK

### Install on Ubuntu like Linux variants (debian based) or OSX

NB: The following procedure is for Ubuntu like Linux variants (debian based). Please adapt accordingly for your OS. We would welcome installation instructions for other OSes as well.

We recommend using [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/), which bundles togther most of the required packages. Please download Anaconda for Python 2.7.x. We do not currently support Python 3.

After installing Anaconda, please do the following:

- Update anaconda
```bash
conda update --yes conda
```

- Install HDF5 libaries and python-dev
```bash
sudo apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev python-dev
```

- Install git client
```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

- Install pip and other dependencies which might be missing from Anaconda
```bash
conda install --yes pip numpy scipy six scikit-learn pandas numexpr pytables dateutil matplotlib networkx hmmlearn
```
Note that, if you are using `pip` instead of `conda` then remove `dateutil` and replace `pytables` with `tables`.

- Install [NILM Metadata](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/
cd nilm_metadata
python setup.py develop
cd ..
```

- Install psycopg2
First you need to install Postgres:
```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
sudo apt-get install postgresql-server-dev-all
pip install psycopg2
```

- Misc. pip installs
```bash
pip install nose coveralls coverage
```

- Finally! Install NILMTK
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk.git
cd nilmtk
python setup.py develop
cd..
```

- If you wish, you may also run NILMTK tests to make sure the installation has succeeded.
```bash
cd nilmtk
nosetests
```

### Install on Windows

- Install [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/), which bundles togther most of the required packages. Please download Anaconda for Python 2.7.x. We do not currently support Python 3.

- Install [git](http://git-scm.com/download/win) client. You may need to add `git.exe` to your path in order to run nilmtk tests. 

- Install pip and other dependencies which might be missing from Anaconda
```bash
conda install --yes pip numpy scipy six scikit-learn pandas numexpr pytables dateutil matplotlib networkx hmmlearn
```

- Install [NILM Metadata](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata) from git bash
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/
cd nilm_metadata
python setup.py develop
cd ..
```

-  Install postgresql support (currently needed for WikiEnergy converter)
Download release for your python environment:
http://www.stickpeople.com/projects/python/win-psycopg/

- Misc. pip installs
```bash
pip install nose pbs coveralls coverage
```

- Finally! Install nilmtk from git bash
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk.git
cd nilmtk
python setup.py develop
cd..
```

- If you wish, you may also run NILMTK tests to make sure the installation has succeeded
```bash
cd nilmtk
nosetests
```

# Installation troubleshooting

### C headers installed in a non-standard location

If C headers for a required Python library are installed in a non-standard location (for example, because you don't have root access) then installation might fail with an error like this:

```bash
fatal error: numpy/arrayobject.h: No such file or directory compilation terminated.
error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1
```

In this case, first find where `numpy/arrayobject.h` is stored on your system (for example, by using `locate numpy/arrayobject.h`).  (For reference: the standard location is `/usr/include/python2.7/` which  contains lots of `.h` header files and a `numpy` directory which is also full of `.h` files.)  

Now try appending your `C_INCLUDE_PATH` environment variable with the path in which you find `numpy/arrayobject.h` and try building again.

(For reference: [here's the original issue](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk/issues/44) where this problem arose and was solved.)

Commit message:

add note about Pandas 0.17 having a bug. #450 #456

docs/manual/user_guide/install.md, after:


# Install NILMTK

### Install on Ubuntu like Linux variants (debian based) or OSX

NB: The following procedure is for Ubuntu like Linux variants (debian based). Please adapt accordingly for your OS. We would welcome installation instructions for other OSes as well.

We recommend using [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/), which bundles togther most of the required packages. Please download Anaconda for Python 2.7.x. We do not currently support Python 3.

After installing Anaconda, please do the following:

- Update anaconda
```bash
conda update --yes conda
```

- Install HDF5 libaries and python-dev
```bash
sudo apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev python-dev
```

- Install git client
```bash
sudo apt-get install git
```

- Install pip and other dependencies which might be missing from Anaconda
```bash
conda install --yes pip numpy scipy six scikit-learn pandas numexpr pytables dateutil matplotlib networkx hmmlearn
```
Note that, if you are using `pip` instead of `conda` then remove
`dateutil` and replace `pytables` with `tables`.

Please also note that there is
[a bug in Pandas 0.17](https://github.com/pydata/pandas/issues/11626)
which causes serious issues with data which crossed a daylight saving
boundary.  As such, please either install Pandas 0.16.2 or install
pandas 0.17.0+210.g91407ff from git using something like this:

```bash
pip uninstall pandas
pip install -e git+https://github.com/pydata/pandas.git@91407ffd5f6d497949239b2ab956368dec2ac32b#egg=pandas
```

Of course, once Pandas 0.17.1 is available, you should use that.

- Install [NILM Metadata](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata).
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/
cd nilm_metadata
python setup.py develop
cd ..
```

- Install psycopg2
First you need to install Postgres:
```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
sudo apt-get install postgresql-server-dev-all
pip install psycopg2
```

- Misc. pip installs
```bash
pip install nose coveralls coverage
```

- Finally! Install NILMTK
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk.git
cd nilmtk
python setup.py develop
cd..
```

- If you wish, you may also run NILMTK tests to make sure the installation has succeeded.
```bash
cd nilmtk
nosetests
```

### Install on Windows

- Install [Anaconda](https://store.continuum.io/cshop/anaconda/), which bundles togther most of the required packages. Please download Anaconda for Python 2.7.x. We do not currently support Python 3.

- Install [git](http://git-scm.com/download/win) client. You may need to add `git.exe` to your path in order to run nilmtk tests. 

- Install pip and other dependencies which might be missing from Anaconda
```bash
conda install --yes pip numpy scipy six scikit-learn pandas numexpr pytables dateutil matplotlib networkx hmmlearn
```

- Install [NILM Metadata](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata) from git bash
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/
cd nilm_metadata
python setup.py develop
cd ..
```

-  Install postgresql support (currently needed for WikiEnergy converter)
Download release for your python environment:
http://www.stickpeople.com/projects/python/win-psycopg/

- Misc. pip installs
```bash
pip install nose pbs coveralls coverage
```

- Finally! Install nilmtk from git bash
```bash
git clone https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk.git
cd nilmtk
python setup.py develop
cd..
```

- If you wish, you may also run NILMTK tests to make sure the installation has succeeded
```bash
cd nilmtk
nosetests
```

# Installation troubleshooting

### C headers installed in a non-standard location

If C headers for a required Python library are installed in a non-standard location (for example, because you don't have root access) then installation might fail with an error like this:

```bash
fatal error: numpy/arrayobject.h: No such file or directory compilation terminated.
error: command 'gcc' failed with exit status 1
```

In this case, first find where `numpy/arrayobject.h` is stored on your system (for example, by using `locate numpy/arrayobject.h`).  (For reference: the standard location is `/usr/include/python2.7/` which  contains lots of `.h` header files and a `numpy` directory which is also full of `.h` files.)  

Now try appending your `C_INCLUDE_PATH` environment variable with the path in which you find `numpy/arrayobject.h` and try building again.

(For reference: [here's the original issue](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk/issues/44) where this problem arose and was solved.)
