docs/manual/development_guide/writing_a_dataset_converter.md, before:

# Writing a dataset converter

The [HDF5 file format](http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5) is developed by The
HDF Group. It is an open, binary file format with good support in a
number of programming languages including Python. In principal, you
could use any language to create your dataset converter but we would
recommend the Python language and we have not tried writing converters
in another other language. Working with HDF5 files is really easy in
Python using [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/) (which, in turn, uses
the excellent [PyTables](http://www.pytables.org) package).

> **note**
>
> If you haven't done so already, then it might be worth reading the
> [Pandas tutorial on working with HDF5 files in
> Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/io.html#hdf5-pytables).

If you would like to contribute a new dataset converter (or just better
understand the existing converters) then the best way to get up to speed
is probably to read this document first. This document explains the
layout of data in a NILMTK HDF5 file. Then take a look at the REDD
converter for NILMTK (in `nilmtk/nilmtk/dataset_converters/redd`).

NILMTK dataset converters output an HDF5 file which contains both the
time series data from each meter as well as all relevant metadata.


## Time series data

Data from each physical meter is stored in its own table (i.e. there is
a one-to-one relationship between tables in the HDF5 file and physical
meters).


### Table location (keys)

Tables in HDF5 are identified by a hierarchical key. Each key is a
string. Levels in the hierarchy are separated by a `/` character in the
key. NILMTK uses keys in the form `/building<i>/elec/meter<j>` where `i`
and `j` are integers starting from 1. `i` is the building instance and
`j` is the meter instance. For example, the table storing data from
meter instance 1 in building instance 1 would have the key
`/building1/elec/meter1`. (We use `elec` in the hierarchy to allow us,
in the future, to add support for other sensor types like water and gas
meters).

### Contents of each table

#### Illustration

|                           |  power | energy   | voltage |
| ------------------------- | ------ | -------- | ------- |
|                           | active | reactive |         |
| 2014-07-01T05:00:14+00:00 |    0.1 |     0.01 |   231.1 |
| 2014-07-01T05:00:15+00:00 |  100.5 |    10.5  |   232.1 |

#### Index column

The index column is a datetime represented on disk as a nano-second
precision (!) UNIX timestamp stored as an unsigned 64-bit int. In
Python, we used a timezone-aware `numpy.datetime64`.

#### Measurement columns

Every column apart from the index column holds a measurement taken by
the meter. These measurements could be power demand, energy, cumulative
energy, voltage or current. Each measurement is represented as 32-bit
floating point number.

We always use SI units or SI derived units and NILMTK assumes that no
unit prefix (e.g. 'kilo-' or 'mega-') has been applied. In other words,
NILMTK assumes a unit multiplier of 1. For example, we always use watts
(not kW) for active power. If the source dataset uses, say, kW then
please multiply these values by 1000 in your converter.

#### Column labels

Column labels are hierarchical with 2 levels ([hierarchical labels are
very well supported by
Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/indexing.html#hierarchical-indexing-multiindex)).
The top level describes the `physical_quantity` being measured. The
seconds level describes the `type` which, at present, is used for energy
and power columns to describe whether the alternating current
measurement is `apparent`, `active` or `reactive`. We use a controlled
vocabulary for both `physical_quanitity` and `type`. For the full
details of this controlled vocabulary, please see the documentation for
`physical_quantity` and `type` under the `measurements` property for the
[MeterDevice object in NILM
Metadata](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html#meterdevice).

#### Compression

We use `zlib` to compress our HDF5 files. `bzip2` results in slightly
smaller files (261 MB for `bzip2` versus 273 MB for `zlib` for REDD) but
doesn't appear to be compatible with
[HDFView](http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/release/download.html).


## Metadata

In order for NILMTK to be able to load the dataset, we need to add
metadata to the HDF5 file. NILMTK uses the [NILM Metadata
schema](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata).

If the dataset is already described in YAML using the NILM Metadata
schema then just call `nilm_metadata.convert_yaml_to_hdf5()`.

If the dataset is not already described using the NILM Metadata schema
then it will be necessary to do so. If it is a small dataset then you
could manually write the YAML files and then convert these to HDF5 (this
is how our REDD converter works). If it is a large dataset then it would
be better to programmatically convert the dataset's own metadata to NILM
Metadata and store the metadata directly in the HDF5 file. For an
introduction to NILM Metadata first read the
[README](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/blob/master/README.md)
and then [the
tutorial](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/tutorial.html)
and finally refer to [the dataset\_metadata doc
page](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html)
for the full description of the metadata schema.

Commit message:

added sentence to say dataframes should be sorted #421

docs/manual/development_guide/writing_a_dataset_converter.md, after:

# Writing a dataset converter

The [HDF5 file format](http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5) is developed by The
HDF Group. It is an open, binary file format with good support in a
number of programming languages including Python. In principal, you
could use any language to create your dataset converter but we would
recommend the Python language and we have not tried writing converters
in another other language. Working with HDF5 files is really easy in
Python using [Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/) (which, in turn, uses
the excellent [PyTables](http://www.pytables.org) package).

> **note**
>
> If you haven't done so already, then it might be worth reading the
> [Pandas tutorial on working with HDF5 files in
> Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/io.html#hdf5-pytables).

If you would like to contribute a new dataset converter (or just better
understand the existing converters) then the best way to get up to speed
is probably to read this document first. This document explains the
layout of data in a NILMTK HDF5 file. Then take a look at the REDD
converter for NILMTK (in `nilmtk/nilmtk/dataset_converters/redd`).

NILMTK dataset converters output an HDF5 file which contains both the
time series data from each meter as well as all relevant metadata.


## Time series data

Data from each physical meter is stored in its own table (i.e. there is
a one-to-one relationship between tables in the HDF5 file and physical
meters).


### Table location (keys)

Tables in HDF5 are identified by a hierarchical key. Each key is a
string. Levels in the hierarchy are separated by a `/` character in the
key. NILMTK uses keys in the form `/building<i>/elec/meter<j>` where `i`
and `j` are integers starting from 1. `i` is the building instance and
`j` is the meter instance. For example, the table storing data from
meter instance 1 in building instance 1 would have the key
`/building1/elec/meter1`. (We use `elec` in the hierarchy to allow us,
in the future, to add support for other sensor types like water and gas
meters).

### Contents of each table

#### Illustration

|                           |  power | energy   | voltage |
| ------------------------- | ------ | -------- | ------- |
|                           | active | reactive |         |
| 2014-07-01T05:00:14+00:00 |    0.1 |     0.01 |   231.1 |
| 2014-07-01T05:00:15+00:00 |  100.5 |    10.5  |   232.1 |

#### Index column

The index column is a datetime represented on disk as a nano-second
precision (!) UNIX timestamp stored as an unsigned 64-bit int. In
Python, we used a timezone-aware `numpy.datetime64`. The dataframe must 
be sorted in ascending order on the index (timestamp) column.

#### Measurement columns

Every column apart from the index column holds a measurement taken by
the meter. These measurements could be power demand, energy, cumulative
energy, voltage or current. Each measurement is represented as 32-bit
floating point number.

We always use SI units or SI derived units and NILMTK assumes that no
unit prefix (e.g. 'kilo-' or 'mega-') has been applied. In other words,
NILMTK assumes a unit multiplier of 1. For example, we always use watts
(not kW) for active power. If the source dataset uses, say, kW then
please multiply these values by 1000 in your converter.

#### Column labels

Column labels are hierarchical with 2 levels ([hierarchical labels are
very well supported by
Pandas](http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/indexing.html#hierarchical-indexing-multiindex)).
The top level describes the `physical_quantity` being measured. The
seconds level describes the `type` which, at present, is used for energy
and power columns to describe whether the alternating current
measurement is `apparent`, `active` or `reactive`. We use a controlled
vocabulary for both `physical_quanitity` and `type`. For the full
details of this controlled vocabulary, please see the documentation for
`physical_quantity` and `type` under the `measurements` property for the
[MeterDevice object in NILM
Metadata](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html#meterdevice).

#### Compression

We use `zlib` to compress our HDF5 files. `bzip2` results in slightly
smaller files (261 MB for `bzip2` versus 273 MB for `zlib` for REDD) but
doesn't appear to be compatible with
[HDFView](http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/release/download.html).


## Metadata

In order for NILMTK to be able to load the dataset, we need to add
metadata to the HDF5 file. NILMTK uses the [NILM Metadata
schema](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata).

If the dataset is already described in YAML using the NILM Metadata
schema then just call `nilm_metadata.convert_yaml_to_hdf5()`.

If the dataset is not already described using the NILM Metadata schema
then it will be necessary to do so. If it is a small dataset then you
could manually write the YAML files and then convert these to HDF5 (this
is how our REDD converter works). If it is a large dataset then it would
be better to programmatically convert the dataset's own metadata to NILM
Metadata and store the metadata directly in the HDF5 file. For an
introduction to NILM Metadata first read the
[README](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilm_metadata/blob/master/README.md)
and then [the
tutorial](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/tutorial.html)
and finally refer to [the dataset\_metadata doc
page](http://nilm-metadata.readthedocs.org/en/latest/dataset_metadata.html)
for the full description of the metadata schema.
